# CCDH Monthly Progress Report
## 2020-07-14

### Data Model Harmonization WS
- __CRDC objectives (for the activity)__: 
  - Develop a harmonized model that enables cross-node querying and aggregation of disparate data from CRDC nodes and resources
- __CCDH project goals__: 
  - Continue to evolve the CDM into the CRDC-H prototype model
- __Progress over the last month__: 
  - Prepared and delivered the ‘CRDC-H Draft Model Presentation’ to the community on June 22
  - Held inaugural data model harmonization ‘Office Hours’ sessions on June 25 and July 9
  - Initial planning for Phase 2 work began with identifying high-level near-term tasks for the workstream as well as longer-term goals / streams of activity
  - Weighing depth vs breadth
- __Status (e.g. against a timeline)__:
  - Still working on the Phase 2 timeline which has dependencies on a number of internal and external factors (e.g. CDA scope and timeline)
- __Next steps/work for the upcoming month(s) in context of workstream or cross-cutting plans__:
  - Continued work on the CDM
    - Finalize BRIDG and FHIR mappings for remaining Biospecimen and Administrative subdomain entities with assistance from Samvit Solutions (Wendy)
    - Finish refactoring Biospecimen and Administrative entities into the CDM (Slide, Project, Program, Center, Tissue Source Site)
    - CDM prototype evaluation/refinement
  - Establish a system (resources, processes, roles) for keeping SSDs, ADM, and CDM in sync with changes in upstream node models
  - Deepen integration with CDA around data model issues
    - Meet with CDA to identify shared scope of work for the coming months around HTAN
    - Establish regular modeling meetings with CDA
    - Establish plan for coordinated modeling of Biospecimens with HTAN
    - TBD half-day hackathon with HTAN
  - Continue evaluation of formal implementation language/framework (FHIR-Metamodeling language, FHIR IG, Biolinkml)
    - Involve nodes and CDA in evaluation and decision making
    - Dependency on LBNL for Biolinkml work


### Ontology and Terminology Ecosystem WS
- __CRDC objectives (for the activity)__:
  - Develop terminology services to support interoperability across the CRDC ecosystem.
- __CCDH project goals__: 
  - Develop terminology services to support data annotation, data harmonization workflows, and user queries.
  - Collect requirements for evolution of NCIt, EVS, and caDSR 
  - Deliver terminological content to nodes and applications, including CDA
  - Best practices for terminological use and development
- __Progress over the last month__: 
  - Harold and Dazhi have been working on BiolinkML, the modeling language that will be used to specify the terminology model for the terminology service
  - Harold and Dazhi created a prototype of FHIR terminology service on the caDSR triple store, and tested integrating the value sets from caDSR into FHIR models.
  - Dazhi presented the work of FHIR on caDSR at a HOT community meeting.  
- __Status (e.g. against a timeline)__:
  - Did not report
- __Next steps/work for the upcoming month(s) in context of workstream or cross-cutting plans__:
  - Continue to build the terminology service to integrate more data sources such as BioPortal.
  -  Adding enum support in BiolinkML that will be used to model value sets in the terminology models.
  - Collaborating on work for terminological tools & landscape eval (in Tools WS)

### Tools and Data Quality WS
- __CRDC objectives (for the activity)__:
  - Develop or customize software tools to facilitate use of the harmonized data model and terminologies by CRDC nodes and CDA.
- __CCDH project goals__: 
  - Create development plan for Pilot Metadata Mapping and Transformation tools
- __Progress over the last month__:
  - Added Laura Christopherson to RENCI team; she is interested in requirements analysis.
  - Gaurav has been developing deeper familiarity with features available in CEDAR; gave presentation on example creation of specimen model interface. 
  - Gaurav and Jim now have NIH badges; Gaurav has NIH laptop.
  - Looking forward to MVS presentation this week.
- __Status (e.g. against a timeline)__:
  - Did not report
- __Next steps/work for the upcoming month(s) in context of workstream or cross-cutting plans__:
  - Improve use of GitHub for tracking goals.
  - Solid progress on pilot development plan.
    - Assess needs of tools workstream “customers”.
  - Testing IDC needs/configuration in CEDAR as an experiment to reveal requirements and suitability of CEDAR for use by CRDC nodes.
  - Integrate LBNL team (hopefully).

### Community Development WS - (Nicole & Sam)
- __CRDC objectives (for the activity)__:
  - This aligns with our efforts to engage with the CRDC and support their goals.
- __CCDH project goals__:
  - Write the Support service and engagement plan
    - Link to individual workstream goal/plans: 
    - Link to GitHub ticket(s): Community development WS GitHub tickets
- __Progress over the last month__:
  - https://github.com/cancerDHC/operations/milestone/1
  - Added Jen Martin to the OSU team; she will likely be facilitating integration of terminological content into the CCDH website as well as helping the tools team with UI needs.
- __Status (e.g. against a timeline)__:
  - On target to finalize by end of Q2: https://github.com/cancerDHC/community-development/milestone/4
  - On target to finalize by end of Q3: https://github.com/cancerDHC/community-development/milestone/3 
  - On target to finalize by end of Phase II: https://github.com/cancerDHC/community-development/milestone/1 
- __Next steps/work for the upcoming month(s) in context of workstream or cross-cutting plans__:
  - Schedule interviews with ISB and Broad
  - Send Q2 newsletter
  - Work on CRDC project/people inventory
- __Notes__: 
  - __ToDo__: Make sure to also keep track of work on proposed website mockups in GH tickets.


### Operations
- Adding organization to our GitHub organization
  - [These](https://github.com/cancerDHC/operations/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Phase+II%22) are high-level ("super") tickets with tasks for Phase II. These ops tickets are intentionally 'general' and describe the big tasks. We are kindly asking each of the workstreams to link their own detailed tickets to these high-level ones.
  - These are 2 deliverables extracted from the Gantt we submitted. 
  - Of note, in the submitted Research Plan, we promised to run a pilot with the work of each of our workstreams. Please review the proposed work for your respective WS to make sure we are all keeping track of (or updating where necessary) the promised work / tasks as they were submitted in the proposal.
  - Collaborated with the Community Development team to update GH repos & project boards. 
- Status of work / meetings with CDA:
  - Kickoff meeting held on 15-June
  - Information exchange during CRDC virtual F2F
  - Strategic call with Cara Mason & Moni: exchanged ToDos to refine next technical steps and plan a first CDA + CCDH + HTAN meeting.
    - We need to understand what their data model is in the various areas and where they are headed with them, up and coming requirements, implementation strategies, QC methods, and how the various data modalities fit together. We also need to know how they are applying terminologies in these models. 
    - ToDo: Moni is sending a list of funded CCDH members to be added to the HTAN Synapse website.
  - CDA invited to CCDH Slack
  - Melissa & Moni were added to CRDC Slack. 
    - ToDo: Need to prioritize who else from CCDH can be added. 
  - Request from CDA to have 1 or 2 CCDH members join the CDA-HTAN meeting on July 22nd at 9:00 AM (Pacific) / 12:00 PM (Eastern):
    - Goal: first contact. Understanding HTAN use case. 
    - [Done] ToDo: name the people who will attend and respond to Resham.
    - Overlaps with CCDH Internal call - 
    - [Done] Brain, Matt, Sam. -- Moni: find out call details and send / ask Cara to please invite them to the call.
- Assisting the community:
  - Updating CCDH-community Google Group
  - Office Hours announcement for DMH team
  - Distribution of slides / video after CRDC-H prototype presentation
  - Addressing various other requests for info/help
- Misc: 
  - Organizing recordings from presentations and meetings
