# CCDH Monthly Progress Report
## 2020-06-09

### Data Model Harmonization Team
- The Phase 1 CRDC-H Prototype Report was submitted on 22-May. 
  - Follow ups:
    - Share the report with participating groups and stakeholders.
      - Presentation to community scheduled for 22-June at 11:00 AM (Pacific)
    - Develop a timeline for the next updates 
      - Enumerating tasks and decision points for Phase II
      - Validate / test CDM using a combination of node feedback, node data, competency queries, CDA input
      - Incorporation of additional CRDC node models into ADM
      - Incorporation of additional ADM entities / subdomains into the CDM
      - Evolve the existing CDM into an implementable logical model
    - Organize a regular update/exchange involving all stakeholders.
      - Reserved ‘office hours’ time during Thursday DMH meetings
      - Newsletter
- __Notes:__ 
  - Currently developing a plan & timeline.
  - Office hours: 
    - Working on a schedule.
    - Will publicize to CRDC, and others. Not too widely publicized. 
  - Priorities for DMH team will be informed by how other WSs are making progress, as well as work at CDA. 

### Terminologies Team
- Working in partnership with both the DMH and Tools teams.
- Linking terminology to FHIR data models
- FHIR Terminology Services based on caDSR models
- Next steps involve role that both FHIR and caDSR play in Phase 2
  - Using caDSR to record new model information?  If so, what API and back end should be used
  - Next steps with FHIR models?
  - Biolinkml as primary w/ export to FHIR?
- __Notes:__
  - It would be very useful to bring up these questions during the call with CDA. Growing agenda here.


### Tools & Data Quality Team
- Working to ensure coverage of mappings from SNOMED terms in DICOM to NCIt (GitHub ticket here).
- Planning next steps for CEDAR example metadata template for ADM Sample.
- Working on bringing in another RENCI developer with requirements analysis experience.
- Obtaining NIH badges for Jim and Gaurav.
- Planning a call with OMOP vocab group 
  - Reached out to OHDSI team, now awaiting response; candidate dates are now: 24-June and 1-July. They will join our regular Internal Meeting on one of those two dates. 
- __Notes:__
  - We could present to them our work on Terminology & FHIR work. 
 

### Community development Team
- Preparing community engagement plan.
  - Hoping to send out CCDH Newsletter by end of month.
- Kat is scheduling future interviews - plan to interview Broad and ISB in the next two weeks.
- Hoping to update our page on the CRDC website.
- Collecting feedback on Web Portal Mockups: 
  - Working to create a Drupal instance based on these mockups.
  - Decision - move forward with the current web portal mockup, Brian will start a draft website on his non-official drupal instance
- __Presentations__:
  - Chris Chute gave an overview of CCDH to the HL7 BRR team. Slides here.
